---
layout: default
title:  "Values"
date:   2018-08-24 21:10:20 -0700
permalink: /company/values
photo: /assets/images/hero-values-02.jpg
---

# Values

Guidelines of team goodness:

- Constantly look to elevate others.
- Converse with empathy, trying to put yourself in the other’s shoe.  
- Give more than you take.
- Be humble; you always have something to learn form someone else.
- Respect others’ expertise and time.
- Be authentic: strive for [radical candor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4yODalLQ2lM) (caring personally + challenging directly) in your relationships
- Stand together.
- Embrace autonomy.
- Share gratitude and appreciation often.
- Be proactive when you sense tension.

Operating principles:

- **Freedom though clarity:** the goal of guiding principles is to create space for clarity. Understand bounds to operate in, then make stuff happen.

- **We’re all noobs.** Take on a posture of mentoring and patience… not barriers and beatdowns. Ask questions, even if you're supposed to be "the expert" on something. We're all constantly learning, and no one expects you to have all the answers.

- **Development as exploration**: As we build, we learn. And corollary: learning is most valuable outcome for our company. No great way to estimate effort up-front. No great way to know the solution up-front. Most times the best thing to do is just start writing code as it helps clarify things in your mind.

- **"Code wins arguments":** instead of debating best practices and semantics, write code. It might not be beautiful, and it might not be the best (or even a good) way to get something done, but given *Development as exploration*, the first step to understanding is code, so writing code is a surefire way to make progress. Yes, development is one of the most expensive ways to learn, but more expensive is indecisiveness + inaction. Also known as: #makerculture

- **Refactor mercilessly:** we know we're going to change our minds often (given our focus on experimenting), especially as we learn more and things become more clear. We have to be willing to refactor often, not afraid to touch parts of the code that are already there just because "it's been that way." In fact, be vigilant and call out times when you sense others are fearful of working through a "sacred cow" piece of the system. [More deets here](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?RefactorMercilessly).

- **Candor in conversations:** we trust and respect each other as people, and we’re all in the same boat rowing towards the same goal. We’ve got each others’ backs, and always look to lift others. Being candid about feelings + opinions helps all of us grow stronger.

- **If you're not falling down, you're moving too cautiously:** we believe that if you're really pushing your boundaries, you're going to fall down. Don't be afraid to fall. Don't think you need permission. Try, do, fall down, mess up. It's ok. As a team, we won't chastise you for failure, and we don't expect to be chastised when we fail. We'll be here to pick you up and see what we learned from it. We are most worried about harboring a *fear of change* and *fear of failure*. They are natural emotions, and we need to overcome them together!
